# Options Margin Lending Pool (OMLP)
Our OMLPs are single-asset pools (SAPs) that allow users (like market makers/short sellers) to borrow funds from liquidity providers in order to cover their positions. 

Before diving into the OMLP (*pun intended*) we must first understand how options contracts are structured within the options market. Please visit the ***"Options - For Starters"*** guide for futher details on options markets basics.

## Option Contract Structure: "Calls" vs "Puts"

Traditionally, options contracts are structured by requiring **two** parties to trade.  One is positioned as the Call; the other is positioned as the Put.

> Trader A  vs Trader B 


OMLPs disrupts traditional markets completely by adding another *dimension* to the options contract structure - **single-party** options trading! 

Thanks to OMLP, a second options contract structure was born.  Now traders have the ability to enter options contracts by themselves and against liquidity providers:

> Trader A vs Trader B

> Trader A vs SAP

This new dimension naturally maximizes traders' capital efficiencies and timing strategies by removing their need to deal with other individuals.

OMLP is designed as a two-tiered SAP system that prioritizes liquidity from our in-house liquidity provider pools first - named "SAP1".  Once the funds from SAP1 are 100% utilized by traders, funds are then tapped from external liquidity providers - named SAP2.

But ***how*** are SAPs funded?

## Lending: SAP1
SAP1 funds are provided to the pool via OPX directly from liquidity providers whom earn yield from [fees](/products/fees) generated by borrowing traders.  The fees earned come in the form of the pool's asset type.  For example, if the borrower is borrowing from a SOL pool, then the LPers will be paid in SOL, etc.  Our primary goal in designing SAP1 was to create a way in which users who do not want to trade directly can still participate within the options market.  We crafted this two-tiered priority systen to incentivize Total Value Locked ([TvL](https://www.google.com/search?q=what+does+total+value+locked+mean%3F&oq=what+does+total+value+locked+mean%3F&gs_lcrp=EgZjaHJvbWUyBggAEEUYOTIHCAEQABiABDINCAIQABiGAxiABBiKBTINCAMQABiGAxiABBiKBTINCAQQABiGAxiABBiKBTIHCAUQABjvBTIHCAYQABjvBTIKCAcQABiiBBiJBdIBCDg4NTVqMGo3qAIAsAIA&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8)) and protocol growth.  

But wait, that is not all! The yield earned from SAP1 is unqiue because it is completely resistant to [impermanent loss (IL).](https://www.google.com/search?q=what+is+impermanent+loss%3F&sca_esv=d6b7cd5f9271c9c7&ei=2pRFaNucOPaDwbkP_cb1uAM&ved=0ahUKEwjb8eXU--GNAxX2QTABHX1jHTcQ4dUDCBA&uact=5&oq=what+is+impermanent+loss%3F&gs_lp=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-QHCAiQQABiABBhGGPkBGJcFGIwFGN0EGEYY-QEY9AMY9QMY9gPYAQLCAggQABiABBiiBMICCxAAGIAEGIYDGIoFmAMM8QU-OcVzw-q9HIgGAZAGCLoGBAgBGAe6BgYIAhABGBOSBwQyNi42oAfQ9gGyBwQyMi42uAfzE8IHCDItMjQuNy4xyAfdAQ&sclient=gws-wiz-serp).  The IL resistance is a byproduct of SAP1 that cannot be enjoyed via typical DeFi liquidity pools!   

Once 100% utilization is reached from SAP1 (aka all funds are being borrowed), liquidity is then sourced from SAP2.

## Lending: SAP2

SAP2 integrated pools are sourced from proven Solana liquidity powerhouses like [Kamino](https://app.kamino.finance/liquidity?filter=all&sort=tvl) and [Orca](https://www.orca.so/).  SAP2 ensure there is always funding with OPX, making it a true 24/7 options market!

## Expanding option markets: The Summary

Prior to OMLP, **lenders** were never able participate in options contracts, only trader's could participate.  For the first time, multiple users can participate within an options contract as either a trader, a market maker, or as a lender - this is completely innovative and unheard of!